As always the official docs are a great place to learn all about tabs, there on the bottom of that components
documentation you find the ion-tabs element.
Now it is worth pointing out that you use them a little bit different when working with Angular than
it's documented here and I'll explain you how you work with it but the general idea is the same.
So how do you work with tabs then?
First of all, let me get rid of the padding so that we don't have any extra padding on the page,
I don't need that and then you add tabs by adding that ion-tabs component, that is your wrapper around
your entire tabbing logic.
Then you need to add an ion-tab bar and that basically allows you to define which buttons you want to
have, which actual tabs with which text and which icons you want to have. That ion-tab bar must receive
a slot of bottom here so that it's correctly positioned at the bottom of the page. Inside of the ion
tab bar,
you then add your ion-tab button components which allow you to set up the different buttons in
your tab bar and each tab button needs to get a unique identifier which you assign with the tab attribute
and in our case with the places, we'll have let's say discover
but you can choose whatever you want here and I'll also add my second tab button and there I'll add
a tab attribute with a value of offers,
again this is totally up to you.
Now you can add text and or icons to your tabs and I'll add both, you add text by adding a ion label
and then in between you just enter whichever text you want to display, like discover.
You can also then add an ion icon and here I'll use a name of search which should give us a nice search
icon. For the second tab,
I'll add my ion label with a text of offer or offers,
makes more sense since we might have multiple places offered and then also my ion icon with a name
of a card here, that is actually a nice icon I picked in advance that fits quite well.
Of course you can always go to ionicons.com and search for your own
icons you could use here. And now the part that differs,
if you follow the official docs, then you would now also add the ion-tab elements here where you
actually use the same identifiers you used on the tab buttons to then control which content gets displayed
for which button that is pressed. With Angular,
that works a bit different,
you don't add ion-tab and indeed ion-tab at this time is not even supported here,
instead Angular will automatically insert the right page based on the button you pressed and to ensure
that Angular is able of doing that,
you just have to make sure that you match this tab identifier
you're setting up here in your routing setup and for that, we first of all need to tune our routing
setup of course. We do that in the places module because is the place responsible for the places page
and in there
currently, we have one route.
Now we'll add more routes and therefore I'll actually do something which is totally optional but which
is a good practice,
I'll outsource my routes here into a new module, into my places-routing.module.ts file
and that is a similar pattern we have for the main routes with the app routing module as well. In the
places-routing module, I'll export a class which is named PlacesRoutingModule and the duty of that
class is to get the ngModule decorator and if that is something you never saw before,
as always check out my complete guide about Angular, there you'll learn all about Angular modules and
what's up with them and on this ngModule here,
I will now set or I will now import the router module and that is coming from @angular/router,
so nothing ionic specific, that still is Angular routing we're using. The idea is that we here set up some
child routes with forChild which are then basically merged with the global route definition once this
module is lazy loaded,
we also need to export our router module here without forChild being called again though,
so this is now the router module with the new configuration you could say. Now for the routes,
I'll add my routes constant which will be of type routes and routes just as router module needs to be
imported from @angular/router,
that is an array of our route objects,
so again just plain old Angular logic. Now in that object here, in the first object, I want to set a path
which I'll name tabs and you could name this place-tabs as well, whatever you want, I'll just name it tabs.
The component I want to render for this path is my places component because that will actually be
the component, excuse me, places page is the name, that is the component in the end that has my tabs and that
is important.
So here you want to render that component that holds your tabs and of course you need to import that
component here. Now that will have a couple of children, a couple of child routes and now that is an important
pattern,
the page, the component where you have your ion-tabs element needs to have some child routes
and now for these child routes, we'll have to make sure that we adjust them correctly to meet our identifiers
we added on our tab buttons. How do we do that?
Well we add again just an object to configure a path and the path here now has to match one of these
identifiers because ionic behind the scenes will then look for such a path when this button is pressed.
So here, I'll now add discover as a path and discover for me will actually then just be a wrapper with
more child routes because in these child routes, I'll now have both my discover main page where we see all
the places we can book but I'll then always have another child which will be my place detail page
so to say. So I'll have an empty path in there and there I want to lazy load my discover module, so the
discover page, I'll do that by pointing at the discover folder and then the discover module and in
there, without .ts
that's important and then a hashtag
and then discover module.
So you basically now need to enter the name of this class, discover page module it is here after the
hashtag and that is how you set up lazy loading in Angular, relative path from this file on and that allows
us to use lazy loading even inside of tabs.
That means if we never press a tab button, the code for the page that is loaded when you press it will
not be downloaded unnecessarily which is of course great. So that is my first route which is a child
of discover and in the end, we reach this by simply typing /tabs/discover you could say
or actually /places/tabs/discover since this whole module is only loaded after we visited
/places already, so now then we load this discover page.
Now the other child page I have here which should start with /places/tabs/discover
is the page with a path of :placeId
and that is a dynamic parameter, hence the colon
because we'll have different places with different IDs
and I want to show my place
detail page here
and I want to pass the ID as a parameter
in the URL and that is also something we already saw in an earlier module and
that is also just how it works in Angular in general.
Here again I'll set up lazy loading by going to /discover and there now to the place detail folder
and there to the place detail module, without .ts
it's important that you remove that otherwise this path will be resolved incorrectly
and then you add a hashtag and then the name of this module.
So let's go in there,
let's copy and paste that name, it's place
detail page module and let's add it here after the hashtag.
Perfect,
so now we have that setup.
This is my discover area,
of course I also have offers and that will now be a sibling to the discover route object.
Here I have a path of offers
and again, this path now needs to match your button tab attribute here
otherwise it will not be loaded correctly. Here
I'll then also add children because I want to have a couple of routes that actually start with
/places/tabs/offers and the first child route I'll add is again just an empty path for just
/places/tabs/offers and there I'll lazy load the offers modules, so that main offers
page, again without ts here and then just as before,
make sure you do copy the right name here so that lazy loading works correctly. So let's copy that and
add it here after the hashtag.
Now feel free to pause the videos and add routes for the other files we have here,
you'll need to pass some dynamic parameters for some of the other routes, for example for editing or
viewing the details. After the short pause which I give you to pause this video, we'll do it together.
So were you successful?
Let's do it together now.
So we have that first route here already,
now I also want to be able to create new offers and I'll do this with a path of new.
Here you can choose any path you want of course
and again, load children
and then I'll go into the offers folder, then into new offer and then load my new offer module and as
before, make sure you do type or copy
the correct module name otherwise routing will break.
So now after a hashtag, I load the new offer page module.
Now besides that, I'll have two other routes,
the first one is the route for editing,
here I'll have added /placeId.
So that is actually a path that consists of two segments,
the first one is hardcoded but the second one is a dynamic segment because when I added a place, I
need to get its ID and I will pass that ID through the URL.
The rest is not that difficult,
I will lazy load it from the offers folder, added offers.module.ts without ts and then it's the added
offer page module that should be loaded here. And after that, there's one more route to go and that is
just :placeID, that is for the details page where I basically can see all the bookings for
my offer,
so here I'll implement loadChildren ./offer-bookings/offer-bookings.module and then
#OfferBookingsPageModule.
Now one important note, the order here matters,
the hardcoded paths have to go before the ones with the dynamic segments because if you would have
a reverse order, when you go to something like /new and you have :placeId
in front of that, well then new would be treated as a value for placeId
and this route would be loaded
instead of this route, so hardcoded routes first. With that, the routing setup is complete,
now let's pass the routes to router module for child here and then let's import our place routing module
into the places module.
There, we can therefore get rid of that route setup we had in there before, we can get rid of that entire
Angular router import here,
can also get rid of the forms module by the way right now,
we're currently not using forms here and you could delete it for all the other modules too at the moment.
And then here in imports, I'll just import my places routing module and you need to add that import
path here as well.
So now let's save that and let it recompile and then go back to the ionic app here and reload it and
we're not seeing anything, do we?
Well that is because we're using lazy loading,
there's one thing we need to adjust in the places-routing module.
There, we have that big tabs object here in the end where we have all these nested tabs pages,
next to that big tabs path or route object here
you need to add a new route object with a path of empty which is triggered when you're going to just
/places
so to say and there, you should redirect to /places/tabs/discover to start on that discover
page
or of course redirect to another page if you want to start there.
Important here, you need to set path match to full so that this only kicks in if we're really just going
to /places and not to /places/something else
and we need a similar redirection. Actually in here, inside of our tabs,
there we have the rediscover and the offer part, in there you should also add an empty path for cases where
we go to just /places/tabs, there
I also want to redirect to /places/tabs/discover and also set path match to full.
So with these two redirections set up here,
let's now save that and wait for the compilation to finish
and now we can see something. It's still not the final output
I want to have
but we can see that we have the discover page active here and if I go to offers,
we see the offers page.
So that's looking good,
we can also see that lazy loading works if we open a network tab, go back to discover, reload here and
then clear the network log
and now I go to offers, you see that is downloaded separately, so that's lazy loading in action.
But what about that extra navigation bar?
Well the fix is simple. In your places.page.html file where you have your tabs, you should actually
only have your tabs,
so get rid of the ion header and also of ion content and just have ion-tabs in here.
And now with that if you save it, this will reload and we'll get rid of that extra header and this is
now the look and feel
I want to build up on. This is how you can implement tabs in your application.